---
layout: post_page
title: "Designing for user's experience"
description: "My journey as a UX designer"
category: "UX design"
tags: [UX design]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

I took my first user experience (UX) design related module when I was in the third year of my undergraduate studies in the National University of Singapore. The module, Interaction Design, introduced me to the different stages of a typical UX design cycle. The noble idea of designing a product around its users to improve their experience excites me. This makes me to be an UX designer after my undergraduate studies. Fast forward a year to present I must I still have much desire to design for the user’s experience, and cannot wait to graduate to be a full time UX designer.

#### What does UX means to me
There are many people, and surprisingly hirers who use the terms UX and UI interchangeably. An UX designer's job scope consists more than simply designing a graphical user interface for his/hers users. Jakob Nielsen and Don Norman, the two big names behind the <a href="http://www.nngroup.com" title="Nielsen Norman Group" target="_blank">Nielsen Norman Group</a> define user experience to be

> "User experience" encompasses all aspects of the end-user's interaction with the company, its services, and its products. 

Personally, designing for UX encompasses more than just UI design. UX design is a multidisciplinary field which also uses knowledge from but not limited to traditional design, psychology and applied science. UX designers should be able to understand and make sense out of the numbers and figures that are generated by the usability tests, and not to mention the ability to balance between the users' needs and the requirements of the business plan. With all these said however, the most important attribute possessed by an UX designer I believe personally is his/her ability to care for others. I believe that you can only truly see and understand the users’ needs and pain points if you really care for them.

#### Design blog?
I have created this blog in conjunction with my portfolio website, <a href="http://www.comp.nus.edu.sg/~a0087745/portfolio" title="the iconic foundry" target="_blank">the iconic foundry</a>. This blog will document the work-in-progress of my various projects which can be found on my <a href="https://github.com/ywting" title="GitHub" target="_blank">GitHub</a>. I believe that it is important to everyone and not just UX designers to document their works. This serves as a journal and allows us to look back on the works that we have done and keep track on the decisions which we have made along the way.

Besides blogging about the decision behind my work, I will also be posting UX design related topics such as design patterns and my daily observations which are related to UX.